docs/basic-guide/data-export.mdx, before:

---
title: 导出数据
tags:
  - Docs
---

# 导出数据

文档类型：教程型

文档格式：教程目的，前置准备，分步骤讲解原理 & 示例，相关文档推荐；

内容提要：

1. 支持将表的数据导出到哪些文件系统或者数据库，如何导出
2. 是否支持导出查询结果，如何导出

ByConity 支持将查询结果重定向到客户 SELECT 端的文件，这里的文件可以是本地文件，也可以是 HDFS 上的文件。例如：

```
SELECT <expr_list> INTO OUTFILE file_name FORMAT format_name

```

其中，file_name、format_name 均为字符串类型。

## 导出到本地

例如，考虑该表：

```
CREATE TABLE test.select_outfile_testtable
(
    `a` Int8,
    `b` String,
    `c` Int8,
    `date` Date
)
ENGINE = CnchMergeTree()
PARTITION by toYYYYMM(date)
ORDER BY tuple()

```

insert 部分数据：

```
 INSERT INTO test.select_outfile_testtable VALUES (1, 'a', 1,'2022-11-10'), (2, 'b', 2,'2022-11-11'), (3, 'c', 3,'2022-11-12'), (4, 'd', 4,'2022-11-13');

```

将 SELECT 结果导出到本地文件（以 CSV 为例）：

```
SELECT * FROM test.select_outfile_testtable INTO OUTFILE 'select.csv' FORMAT CSV

```

结果：

```
➜  ~ cat select.csv
1,"a",1,"2022-11-10"
2,"b",2,"2022-11-11"
3,"c",3,"2022-11-12"
4,"d",4,"2022-11-13"

```

## 导出到 HDFS

使用 INTO OUTFILE 子句，示例

```
SELECT <expr_list> INTO OUTFILE 'hdfs://ip:port/user/tiger/test/test.gz ' FORMAT format_name

```

其中 hdfs://ip:port/user/tiger/test/test.gz 为上传的 HDFS 地址，格式为：

1. hdfs://为固定前缀，表明是上传到 HDFS；ip 是 hdfs namenode 服务地址。
2. /user/tiger/test/test.gz 即为输出文件的路径，需要注意的是 hdfs 目录路径必须是可用的。

同时，支持常见格式导出到 HDFS，比如 CSV、Parquet、JSON 等，为减少网络传输量，默认开启 gzip 压缩。

Commit message:

update English version of some docs
update English version of some docs:
Cluster Configuration Parameters, Configure Virtual Warehouse, Connect Client, Export Data, Import Data, Manage Background Tasks, Monitor Cluster

docs/basic-guide/data-export.mdx, after:

---
title: Export Data
tags:
  - Docs
---

# Export Data

Document Type: Tutorial

Document format: tutorial purpose, pre-preparation, step-by-step explanation of principles & examples, and related document recommendations;

Summary:

1. Which file systems or databases are supported to export the data of the table, and how to export
2. Whether to support the export of query results, how to export

ByConity supports redirecting query results to files on the client's SELECT side, where files can be local files or files on HDFS. For example:

```
SELECT <expr_list> INTO OUTFILE file_name FORMAT format_name

```

Among them, file_name and format_name are both string types.

## Export to local

For example, consider this table:

```
CREATE TABLE test.select_outfile_testtable
(
    `a` Int8,
    `b` String,
    `c` Int8,
    `date` Date
)
ENGINE = CnchMergeTree()
PARTITION by toYYYYMM(date)
ORDER BY tuple()

```

insert some data：

```
 INSERT INTO test.select_outfile_testtable VALUES (1, 'a', 1,'2022-11-10'), (2, 'b', 2,'2022-11-11'), (3, 'c', 3,'2022-11-12'), (4, 'd', 4,'2022-11-13');

```

Export the SELECT result to a local file (take CSV as an example):

```
SELECT * FROM test.select_outfile_testtable INTO OUTFILE 'select.csv' FORMAT CSV

```

result：

```
➜  ~ cat select.csv
1,"a",1,"2022-11-10"
2,"b",2,"2022-11-11"
3,"c",3,"2022-11-12"
4,"d",4,"2022-11-13"

```

## export to HDFS

use INTO OUTFILE clause, example

```
SELECT <expr_list> INTO OUTFILE 'hdfs://ip:port/user/tiger/test/test.gz ' FORMAT format_name

```

Where hdfs://ip:port/user/tiger/test/test.gz is the uploaded HDFS address, the format is:

1. hdfs:// is a fixed prefix, indicating that it is uploaded to HDFS; ip is the hdfs namenode service address.
2. /user/tiger/test/test.gz is the path of the output file. It should be noted that the hdfs directory path must be available.

At the same time, it supports exporting to HDFS in common formats, such as CSV, Parquet, JSON, etc. In order to reduce the amount of network transmission, gzip compression is enabled by default.
