docs/introduction/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
sidebar_position: 2
tags:
  - Docs
---

# Quick Start

Now that the cluster is up and running, let's give it a quick spin :)

# Getting Started Tutorial

## Connect to the database

```
./clickhouse-client -m -h HOST --port PORT

```

## Create database and table

```
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS helloworld;

CREATE TABLE helloworld.my_first_table
(
    user_id UInt32,
    message String,
    timestamp DateTime
)
ENGINE = CnchMergeTree()
PARTITION BY timestamp
ORDER BY (user_id, timestamp);

```

## Insert and query

```
INSERT INTO helloworld.my_first_table (user_id, message, timestamp) VALUES
    (101, 'Hello, ByConity!',                                 now()),
    (102, 'Insert a lot of rows per batch',                     yesterday()),
    (102, 'Sort your data based on your commonly-used queries', today()),
    (101, 'Granules are the smallest chunks of data read',      now() + 5);

SELECT * FROM helloworld.my_first_table;

SELECT * FROM helloworld.my_first_table ORDER BY timestamp;

SELECT *　FROM helloworld.my_first_table　ORDER BY timestamp　FORMAT JSON;

exit;

```

## Insert file

Suppose we have a file data.csv

```
102,This is data in a file,2022-02-22 10:43:28
101,It is comma-separated,2022-02-23 00:00:00
103,Use FORMAT to specify the format,2022-02-21 10:43:30

```

```
./clickhouse-client -h {HOST} --port {PORT} --query='INSERT INTO helloworld.my_first_table FORMAT CSV' < data.csv

./clickhouse-client -h {HOST} --port {PORT} --query='SELECT * FROM helloworld.my_first_table'

```

# view VW status

```
SELECT * FROM system.worker_groups

Query id: f60481b4-b9a7-494d-a639-ac7be3aa5292

Row 1:
──────
id:             wg_default
type:           Physical
vw_uuid:        1a415df1-6265-40b3-9c00-230fc3b026c1
vw_name:        vw_default
linked_id:
active_workers: 1
min_cpu_usage:  9
max_cpu_usage:  9
avg_cpu_usage:  9
min_mem_usage:  8
max_mem_usage:  8
avg_mem_usage:  8
is_auto_linked: 0

SELECT *
FROM system.workers

Query id: f2377b52-38eb-4437-9813-d34f9dd28049

Row 1:
──────
worker_id:             w1
host:                  {HOST}
tcp_port:              {TCP_PORT}
rpc_port:              {RPC_PORT}
http_port:             {HTTP_PORT}
exchange_port:         {EXCHANGE_PORT}
exchange_status_port:  {EXCHANGE_STATUS_PORT}
vw_name:               vw_default
worker_group_id:       wg_default
query_num:             0
cpu_usage:             {xxx}
reserved_cpu_cores:    0
memory_usage:          {xxx}
disk_space:            {xxx}
memory_available:      {xxx}
reserved_memory_bytes: 0
register_time:         2022-11-30 18:19:49
last_update_time:      2022-11-30 18:21:09
state:                 1

```

# view history query

[https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log/](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log/)

```
SELECT * FROM system.query_log;

```

#

Commit message:

Added deployment instruction to the quick start

docs/introduction/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
sidebar_position: 2
tags:
  - Docs
---


You can deploy ByConity through [package deployment](deployment/package-deployment), using [docker wrapper](deployment/docker-wrapper) or [deploy ByConity in Kubernetes](deployment/deploy-k8s).   

After the cluster is up and running, let's give it a quick spin :)

# Getting Started Tutorial

## Connect to the database

```
./clickhouse-client -m -h HOST --port PORT

```

## Create database and table

```
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS helloworld;

CREATE TABLE helloworld.my_first_table
(
    user_id UInt32,
    message String,
    timestamp DateTime
)
ENGINE = CnchMergeTree()
PARTITION BY timestamp
ORDER BY (user_id, timestamp);

```

## Insert and query

```
INSERT INTO helloworld.my_first_table (user_id, message, timestamp) VALUES
    (101, 'Hello, ByConity!',                                 now()),
    (102, 'Insert a lot of rows per batch',                     yesterday()),
    (102, 'Sort your data based on your commonly-used queries', today()),
    (101, 'Granules are the smallest chunks of data read',      now() + 5);

SELECT * FROM helloworld.my_first_table;

SELECT * FROM helloworld.my_first_table ORDER BY timestamp;

SELECT *　FROM helloworld.my_first_table　ORDER BY timestamp　FORMAT JSON;

exit;

```

## Insert file

Suppose we have a file data.csv

```
102,This is data in a file,2022-02-22 10:43:28
101,It is comma-separated,2022-02-23 00:00:00
103,Use FORMAT to specify the format,2022-02-21 10:43:30

```

```
./clickhouse-client -h {HOST} --port {PORT} --query='INSERT INTO helloworld.my_first_table FORMAT CSV' < data.csv

./clickhouse-client -h {HOST} --port {PORT} --query='SELECT * FROM helloworld.my_first_table'

```

# view VW status

```
SELECT * FROM system.worker_groups

Query id: f60481b4-b9a7-494d-a639-ac7be3aa5292

Row 1:
──────
id:             wg_default
type:           Physical
vw_uuid:        1a415df1-6265-40b3-9c00-230fc3b026c1
vw_name:        vw_default
linked_id:
active_workers: 1
min_cpu_usage:  9
max_cpu_usage:  9
avg_cpu_usage:  9
min_mem_usage:  8
max_mem_usage:  8
avg_mem_usage:  8
is_auto_linked: 0

SELECT *
FROM system.workers

Query id: f2377b52-38eb-4437-9813-d34f9dd28049

Row 1:
──────
worker_id:             w1
host:                  {HOST}
tcp_port:              {TCP_PORT}
rpc_port:              {RPC_PORT}
http_port:             {HTTP_PORT}
exchange_port:         {EXCHANGE_PORT}
exchange_status_port:  {EXCHANGE_STATUS_PORT}
vw_name:               vw_default
worker_group_id:       wg_default
query_num:             0
cpu_usage:             {xxx}
reserved_cpu_cores:    0
memory_usage:          {xxx}
disk_space:            {xxx}
memory_available:      {xxx}
reserved_memory_bytes: 0
register_time:         2022-11-30 18:19:49
last_update_time:      2022-11-30 18:21:09
state:                 1

```

# view history query

[https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log/](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log/)

```
SELECT * FROM system.query_log;

```

#
